(soft music)
Alright, let's get working on these,
and we're gonna need, I dunno,
several grids to get this to work.
And when I'm working with several grids,
I like to maybe just stick them into their own grids file,
just so that I know that all of my layout grids
are in a single file.
So let's go into our styles folder here,
create a new file and call that Grids.js,
and what we'll do in here
is we'll make a grid called home page grid.
So we'll say export const,
home page grid is equal to Styled.div,
and we'll have to import styled.
There we go, and in here we'll display grid,
grid gap, actually just gap now is 20 PX,
grid template columns.
Repeat.
Two, min max,
auto one FR.
I believe that's what we need.
Then we'll go back to our home page,
and go ahead and use that.
So we'll find our home page here,
and see this div right here?
That needs to be swapped out with our actual grid.
So we'll say home page grid.
Make sure that your closing tag is also renamed that,
and then we'll give that an import.
Make sure that that imported it from there.
Good. Okay.
That's not what we wanted.
That's not what I wanted.
The home page grid is not there.
It is right here.
Home page grid.
There we go.
Currently slicing and hot slices.
Okay, cool.
Next up, I think I'm gonna do the loading state first.
So because the fact that it loads,
once you, you actually load the page, like watch here.
We need something to like put there
just to show that something is happening
before it goes ahead.
So what we'll do is we'll go back into our grids,
and we'll make a new one.
Export const, we'll call it items grid.
That's equal to Styled.div.
We will display grid on it.
Gap, two REM,
and grid template columns.
One FR and one FR.
Actually, I'm just looking at this right here.
This is two REM, and this is almost the same thing.
We could put a variable in there and swap it out,
but honestly, it's three lines of CSS, who cares?
It's fine to do it that way,
but if things start to look the same,
like, hmm, maybe I can make some sort
of reusable grid component here
and then pass in the number of columns and whatnot.
I actually initially did do that,
but I was running into trouble with
like nesting grids inside of grids.
So I just decided to go for very
explicit grids that we have there.
Next we're gonna make a loading grid.
And I think that will be its own component.
So let's go into our components, make a new file,
we'll call it LoadingGrid.js,
and we'll export default, function, loading grid.
And that takes in a prop,
which is a count of number of loader items to show,
and then inside of that, we will return,
return, our items grid
that we just made.
That should be auto imported from our CSS.
Why is my auto import not working anymore?
Come on now.
Oh, well we can, we can import it like the olden days again.
Import, items grid,
from, go up a level,
go into styles and grab that from grids.
And then inside of this, we are going to have,
let's just do P loading four times.
Okay.
And then we will, let's just get
this rendering out on the page.
So hop back to your, your home page,
where we have currently slicing and hot slices,
and let's just replace both of those
with loading grid and auto import that.
There we go.
That one worked.
React is not defined.
Oh yeah. We forgot to do that.
Import, react from react.
Okay, cool.
So now we have obviously our loading grid showing up.
One, two, three, four.
We've got our four items showing up.
We'll go back to our loading grid here now,
and we'll take however many items are being passed in.
So when we use it, we'll have to pass in a count of,
in our case, we're gonna pass it in four,
and we'll loop over that many, that many times.
So curly brackets, Array.from.
So we're gonna make an array of four empty spots,
and the length of that array is going to be
however many are passed in.
And the kind of cool thing about Array.from
is a second argument of Array.from is a map function.
So we could either just tag a .map onto the end here
and fill those up with empty items,
or in our case, we,
the second argument of array from is also a map function.
So first argument we don't need.
So we just put an underscore there
so we can get at a second argument,
which is the index and have that there,
and I'm going to use parenthesis
so it's an implicit return,
and then for each one of those,
let's just pay loading dot, dot, dot.
Okay.
So the exact same thing happened except now in our case,
we could change the number of loading items,
and it would just immediately change for us.
But what we need to do inside of here
is we need a div inside of that.
We need a paragraph with the class of mark,
and we'll say loading dot, dot, dot.
Okay. That looks good.
Then we also need an image
where the class name is equal to loading.
The alt is equal to, I think, Oh, that's a good question.
Do you need to put an alt on a loading indicator image,
or can you omit that, or can you like,
does a screen reader need to know that it's loading?
Probably. Let's leave it on.
We'll say width of 500,
a height of 400,
and I believe we'll also need a source
because even though we gave it a width and a height,
this will actually change in CSS pretty soon.
I think this might already be in Chrome,
but if you give something a width and a height it should,
even if the source is not loaded yet,
it should at least maintain that aspect ratio.
So,
you're gonna have to grab this
from the LoadingGrid.js final answer
because I'm not expecting you to type that,
but I have this right here, and all that is,
is a blank image that has a ratio
of five pixels wide and four pixels high.
And what that allows me to do is to maintain a ratio.
There we go.
See?
If you hover over top of it, five by four.
It's just transparent,
and that allows us to stick with a ratio.
So even though this image hasn't been loaded yet,
it will still give us the size that we want.
They are a little bit tall.
We'll fix that in CSS.
And then we're also gonna add
this little animation right here,
this little animation that goes there.
So.
So let's jump back into our grids JS,
and we'll also put the styles
for a single grid item in here.
Single grid item. We'll say for home page.
And we'll say const item is equal to Styled.div.
And let's just say background red.
And we'll go back to our loading grid
and swap out this div here with an item.
Oh, sorry. That should be item styles.
Item styles, and we'll also put an export in front of that.
I'll go into our loading grid and say item styles.
It's not importing, but we can grab it from here.
There we go.
So now at least know that this CSS is working.
And then we'll just write a whole bunch
of CSS here to make it look how we want.
So start off with a text align center
and a position relative.
I'll grab the image that is in there,
and I'm gonna put a border on it.
One PX, solid red.
Just so you can see where that image is.
See?
See it there.
We'll say the height is auto.
There we go.
Now they're showing up properly.
The font size is zero, and that doesn't seem to do anything.
Usually when I do that, it's because an image
will have what's called ghost space.
If you put two inline elements beside each other,
which images inline block,
then you'll have this just like spacing between them,
which is not margin or padding a border or anything.
It's just a national space that CSS gives you.
And the size of that space is determined by the font size.
So usually I pop a font size zero on there
if I'm running into some weird issues with that.
Let's grab the paragraph tag.
We'll say transform,
rotate negative two degrees, and translate.
Let's just see what that does like that.
It. . .
We are also gonna put a position absolute on it
so it can go over top.
Good,
and then I want it to be centered.
So we'll say transform, or no, translate,
Y negative 50%,
and we'll give it a width of 100%.
I know it didn't do anything, but hold on for a second.
There we go.
Width of 100%.
Left zero, and then we will take the mark
that is inside of it and say display inline.
Do we put a Mark inside of it?
No. Okay.
We goofed that up.
Let's go back to our loading grid here
and not give a class of mark to this.
We're gonna put a span with a class of mark inside of it.
Boom. There we go.
That's looking pretty good.
Okay, we can take the border off of that.
And now we'll grab the image when it has a class of loading,
and we'll set a couple of variables here.
We will need a shine variable,
which is going be the color white,
and the background variable,
which is going to be just my gray variable
that we've had before,
and then we're going to put a gradient on it.
So say background image is a linear gradient
that is 90 degrees, and. . .
Or have a variable, gray, or no,
not gray, background
that is zero PX.
Then we have another variable,
which is the shine that goes for 40 PX.
Oh, don't put a comma there.
And then finally, we'll go back to gray.
So variable, background is at 80 PX.
We'll see where that gets us.
So backward image, linear gradient, 90 degrees.
We go from this background color,
back to shine, back to background,
and that's not showing up.
Let's try to change that to red.
Okay, now let's try put a background size of 500 PX on it.
Width a 100%.
Alright. That's not showing up.
Let's inspect that element here.
Oh, look at that.
Capital L on my loading. That's why.
Oh, there it is. Now I'll take lower case.
There we go. All right.
Now you see what's happening here
is that we just set the background of this gradient to be,
we're gonna start at red.
Then at 40 pixels, we'll go to white,
and then we add after 80 pixels,
we'll go back to the red color.
And then we can just change this to be any other color.
Well, I'm gonna use the gray variable
that we've used since the start.
There we go.
And now we want to animate it, right?
So we'll pop an animation on it.
Animation.
We'll say shine over one second.
We want it to infinitely animate,
and we want it to be linear,
and then we'll have to go and write this shine animation.
We can actually do it right above here.
If you were reusing this, you could put it in its own file,
but in our case, we're just using it here.
Say at @keyframes, shine, we want to go from background.
From is a curly bracket.
Background position 200%.
So we want to basically, we're just gonna move
where the background is positioned,
and then we want to go to
background position,
negative 40 PX, and that will,
that negative 40 PX lines up with this,
and that will, sorry I gotta put PX,
put that shine off the screen.
There we go.
Woo.
And you can play with different values of this.
Like you could do this 25 degrees.
That actually doesn't look very good.
Zero degrees. It'll go from top to bottom.
If that was the case, you'd need to change
the axes of the background position.
So that's not a really good example,
but we'll put that back to 90 degrees.
Of course you could change the color
and everything else that you have there.
So that is our loading items that are showing up.
Well, we now need to do is conditionally show
these loading items while we are in a loading state.
So go back to our index here,
and let's go into currently slicing,
and currently slicing takes in the slice masters.
So we'll say, we'll destructure that.
Slice masters.
And in here, we'll say if there are no slice masters,
then we'll do, and, and.
We'll put the loading grid in there.
And then we also have to take care of the fact
that maybe there are slice masters array, but it's empty.
So we'll say slice masters if there are slice masters,
but there is not SliceMasters.length.
And we can put a question mark on there to make sure
there are slice masters before we access length.
Otherwise, if it's the case where there is nothing,
then, it will say cannot access
property length of undefined.
If that is the case, then we say, and, and again,
just a paragraph that says no one is working right now.
Now watch this.
Loading, loading, loading.
And once the slice masters come back. . .
Hold on, let's console log the slice masters
and see what we have there.
So see, we've got loading now,
and then boom, once the slice masters come back,
then we don't see anything.
And that's where we'd have to loop over
and actually display those items.
So let's do that for the other thing on the home page.
So we'll go to our hot slices.
We'll destructure the hot slices.
And in here, we'll say if there are no hot slices,
and we'll give ourself a loading grid.
If there are. . .
We can pretty much just take this
whole thing right here and duplicate it.
So change out slice masters to hot slices.
Let's say
nothing in the case.
And you can verify that by going
into your sanity, backend, deleting everything.
That's good.
And then the final thing we need to do
is to loop over and display all of the actual items,
but I think we've done enough in this video.
Let's pause right there and make sure
everyone's caught up as to what we have.
And we'll pick that up in the next video.